feat: create samples for the http data proxy flow (#1)
Think-iT-Labs/EDC-Samples: transfer/transfer-06-http-data-flow/README.md

> # Implement a simple Http Data Flow

Reviewer: I would specify that this regards the "consumer pull" method (details here: https://github.com/eclipse-edc/Connector/tree/main/extensions/control-plane/transfer/transfer-data-plane)

The purpose of this example is to show a data exchange between 2 connectors, one representing the
data provider and the other, the consumer. For the sake of simplicity, the provider and the consumer

> will be on the same machine, but in a real world configuration, they may as well be on different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will be on the same machine, but in a real world configuration, they will likely be on different
```

machines. The final goal of this example is to present the steps through which the 2 connectors will
have to pass so that the consumer can have access to the data, held by the provider.

Those steps are the following:

> * Running the provider connector (Because the provider should be alive)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Running the provider connector

> * Running the consumer connector (Because it should have a consumer)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Running the consumer connector
```

> * Running a Http server that will serve the data to the consumer connector

Reviewer: This isn't fully correct, the http server will receive the Endpoint Data Reference on the consumer side, that contains the url to be used to get the data.

* Register data plane instance for provider connector
* Register data plane instance for consumer connector
* Create an Asset on the provider (The asset will be the data to be shared)
* Create an access policy on the provider (The policy will define the access right to the data)
* Create a contract definition on the provider

> At this steps, the connector shoul be able to fetch the catalog from the provider and to see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this steps, the connector should be able to fetch the catalog from the provider and to see the
```

> asset that has been created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contract offer generated from the resources that has been created.
```

Once the catalog is available, to access the data, the consumer should follow the following steps:

* Performing a contract negotiation with the provider
* Performing a transfer
    * The consumer will initiate a file transfer

>     * The provider will retrieve an endpoint to access the data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The provider will send an EndpointDataReference to the consumer
```

* The consumer could reach the endpoint and access the data

Also, in order to keep things organized, the code in this example has been separated into several
Java modules:

* `connector`: contains the configuration and build files for both the
  consumer and the provider connector

> * `backend-service`: represent the backend service where the provider will send the endpoint to

Reviewer: not correct, the provider connector sends the EDR to the consumer connector, and the consumer corrector sends the EDR to the backend service

  access the data

### Provider connector

> The provider connector is the one performing the file transfer after the file has been requested

Reviewer: The provider provides the data but it doesn't perform any file transfer in this case (it does on the "provider push" method)

by the consumer.

### Consumer connector

The consumer is the one "requesting" the data and providing a destination for it, i.e. a a backend
service where the provider can send the metadata (endpoint and authorization token) to access the
service.

# How to build a connector

In fact, in the configuration of our example, both the provider and the consumer are connectors.
Therefore, to set up our example, we need to start a connector with the configuration for a provider
and another one with the configuration of a consumer.

This section allows you to build the connector before launching it.

```bash
./gradlew transfer:transfer-06-http-data-flow:connector:build
```

After the build end you should verify that the connector jar is created in the directory
[connector.jar](connector/build/libs/)

# How to run a connector

It is important to note that only the property file differs between the consumer and the supplier.
You can find the configuration file in the directories below:

* [provider](provider/provider-configuration.properties)
* [consumer](consumer/consumer-configuration.properties)

### 1. Run a provider

To run a provider you should run the following command

```bash

> java -Dedc.vault=transfer/transfer-06-http-data-flow/provider/provider-vault.properties -Dedc.keystore=transfer/transfer-06-http-data-flow/certs/cert.pfx -Dedc.keystore.password=123456 -Dedc.fs.config=transfer/transfer-06-http-data-flow/provider/provider-configuration.properties -jar transfer/transfer-06-http-data-flow/connector/build/libs/connector.jar

Reviewer: The keystore properties could be moved to the configuration files, to tidy up the command.

   "edctype": "dataspaceconnector:dataplaneinstance",
   "id": "provider-dataplane",
   "url": "http://localhost:19292/control/transfer",
   "allowedSourceTypes": [ "HttpData" ],
   "allowedDestTypes": [ "HttpProxy", "HttpData" ],
   "properties": {
     "publicApiUrl": "http://localhost:19291/public/"
   }
 }' \
     -X POST "http://localhost:19195/dataplane/instances"
```

### 2. Register data plane instance for consumer

The same thing that is done for the provider must be done for the consumer

```bash
curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
     -d '{
   "edctype": "dataspaceconnector:dataplaneinstance",
   "id": "consumer-dataplane",
   "url": "http://localhost:29292/control/transfer",
   "allowedSourceTypes": [ "HttpData" ],
   "allowedDestTypes": [ "HttpProxy", "HttpData" ],
   "properties": {
     "publicApiUrl": "http://localhost:29291/public/"
   }
 }' \
     -X POST "http://localhost:29195/dataplane/instances"
```

### 3. Create an Asset on the provider side

The provider connector needs to transfer a file to the location specified by the consumer connector
when the data are requested. In order to offer any data, the provider must maintain an internal list

> of assets that are available for transfer, the so-called "catalog". For the sake of simplicity, we

Reviewer: It's not correct, the catalog is a list of resources offered (contract offers), not a simple list of assets

use an in-memory catalog and pre-fill it with just one single asset.

> This will be deleted after the provider shutdown.

Reviewer: The in-memory store choice and the "everything will be lost at restart" could be described in the first part of the readme as premises, so there'll be no need to repeat it during the procedure

The following request creates an asset on the provider connector.

```bash
curl -d '{
           "asset": {
             "properties": {
               "asset:prop:id": "assetId",
               "asset:prop:name": "product description",
               "asset:prop:contenttype": "application/json"
             }
           },
           "dataAddress": {
             "properties": {
               "name": "Test asset",

>                "baseUrl": "https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users",

Reviewer: Please specify in the description that we're using fake data this site, and this will be the data that will be pulled at the end of the sample execution.

               "type": "HttpData"
             }
           }
         }' -H 'content-type: application/json' http://localhost:19193/api/v1/data/assets
```

### 4. Create a Policy on the provider

In order to manage the accessibility rules of an asset, it is essential to create a policy. However,

> to keep things simple, we will choose a policy that gives direct access to the entire asset catalog.

Reviewer: Not correct, this policy gives "direct" access to all the assets that are associated within the contract definitions, not the "asset catalog"

This means that the consumer connector can request any asset from the provider connector.

```bash
curl -d '{
           "id": "aPolicy",
           "policy": {
             "uid": "231802-bb34-11ec-8422-0242ac120002",
             "permissions": [
               {
                 "target": "assetId",
                 "action": {
                   "type": "USE"
                 },
                 "edctype": "dataspaceconnector:permission"
               }
             ],
             "@type": {
               "@policytype": "set"
             }
           }
         }' -H 'content-type: application/json' http://localhost:19193/api/v1/data/policydefinitions
```

### 5. Create a contract definition on Provider

> To ensure an exchange between suppliers and consumers, the supplier must create a contract offer for

Reviewer: Provider, not suppliers

> the good, on the basis of which a contract agreement can be negotiated.

Reviewer: Maybe I would specify that the contract definition associate policies to a selection of assets to generate the contract offers that will be put in the catalog. In this case the selection is empty so every asset is attached to these policies

> be negotiated. For this, we use an in-memory store and add a single contract definition that is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this, we use an in-memory store and add a single contract definition that is
```

valid for the asset.

```bash
curl -d '{
           "id": "1",
           "accessPolicyId": "aPolicy",
           "contractPolicyId": "aPolicy",
           "criteria": []
         }' -H 'content-type: application/json' http://localhost:19193/api/v1/data/contractdefinitions
```

Sample output:

```json
{
  "createdAt": 1674578184023,
  "id": "1"
}
```

### 6. How to fetch catalog on consumer side

> In order to offer any data, the provider must maintain an internal list of assets that are available

Reviewer: Not correct, please update according to the other comments I wrote about what's a catalog.

            "uid": null,
            "target": "assetId",
            "action": {
              "type": "USE",
              "includedIn": null,
              "constraint": null
            },
            "assignee": null,
            "assigner": null,
            "constraints": [],
            "duties": []
          }
        ],
        "prohibitions": [],
        "obligations": [],
        "extensibleProperties": {},
        "inheritsFrom": null,
        "assigner": null,
        "assignee": null,
        "target": "assetId",
        "@type": {
          "@policytype": "set"
        }
      },
      "asset": {
        "id": "assetId",
        "createdAt": 1674578271345,
        "properties": {
          "asset:prop:byteSize": null,
          "asset:prop:name": "product description",
          "asset:prop:contenttype": "application/json",
          "asset:prop:id": "assetId",
          "asset:prop:fileName": null
        }
      },
      "provider": "urn:connector:provider",
      "consumer": "urn:connector:consumer",
      "offerStart": null,
      "offerEnd": null,
      "contractStart": null,
      "contractEnd": null
    }
  ]
}
```

### 7. Negotiate a contract

> In order to request any data, a contract agreement has to be negotiated between providers and

Reviewer: The contract gets negotiated, the agreement is the result of the negotiation

> consumers. The provider offers all of their assets in the form of contract offers, which are the

Reviewer: I would remove the sentence after the dot, because it's true for this example, but not for a real case.

                 {
                   "target": "assetId",
                   "action": {
                     "type": "USE"
                   },
                   "edctype": "dataspaceconnector:permission"
                 }
               ],
               "@type": {
                 "@policytype": "set"
               }
             }
           }
         }' -X POST -H 'content-type: application/json' http://localhost:29193/api/v1/data/contractnegotiations \
         -s | jq
```

Sample output:

```json
{
  "createdAt": 1674585892398,
  "id": "8ce50f33-25f3-42df-99e7-d6d72d83032c"
}
```

### 8. Getting the contract agreement id

After calling the endpoint for initiating a contract negotiation, we get a UUID as the response.
This UUID is the ID of the ongoing contract negotiation between consumer and provider. The
negotiation sequence between provider and consumer is executed asynchronously in the background by a
state machine. Once both provider and consumer either reach the `confirmed` or the  `declined`
state, the negotiation is finished. We can now use the UUID to check the current status of the
negotiation using an endpoint on the consumer side.

> > Please in case you have some issues with the jq option, not that it's not mandatory and you can

Reviewer: This warning about the `jq` command could be put before the first command, specifying that's used for pretty much all the calls

> drop it from the command.

```bash
curl -X GET "http://localhost:29193/api/v1/data/contractnegotiations/<contract negotiation id, returned by the negotiation call>" \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -s | jq
```

Sample output:

```json
{
  "createdAt": 1674585892398,
  "updatedAt": 1674585897476,
  "contractAgreementId": "1:307a028a-b2b3-495e-ab6c-f6dad24dd098",
  "counterPartyAddress": "http://localhost:19194/api/v1/ids/data",
  "errorDetail": null,
  "id": "8ce50f33-25f3-42df-99e7-d6d72d83032c",
  "protocol": "ids-multipart",
  "state": "CONFIRMED",
  "type": "CONSUMER"
}
```

### 9. Start the transfer

> Please in case you have some issues with the jq option, not that it's not mandatory and you can
> drop it from the command.

> As a pre-requisite, you need to have a backend service that run on port 4000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a pre-requisite, you need to have a backend service that runs on port 4000
```

```bash
./gradlew transfer:transfer-06-http-data-flow:backend-service:build
java -jar transfer/transfer-06-http-data-flow/backend-service/build/libs/backend-service.jar 
```

Now that we have a contract agreement, we can finally request the file. In the request body we need
to specify which asset we want transferred, the ID of the contract agreement, the address of the

> provider connector and where we want the file transferred. You will find the request body below.

Reviewer: Please specify that the "HttpProxy" method is used for the consumer pull method, and means that will be up to the consumer to request the data to the provider and that the request will be proxyed to the datasource

> Before executing the request, insert the contract agreement ID from the previous step and adjust the

Reviewer: there's nothing to adjust in the destination location for this sample

```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:29193/api/v1/data/transferprocess" \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --data '{
                "connectorId": "provider",
                "connectorAddress": "http://localhost:19194/api/v1/ids/data",
                "contractId": "<contract agreement id>",
                "assetId": "assetId",
                "managedResources": "false",
                "dataDestination": { "type": "HttpProxy" }
            }' \
    -s | jq
```

Then, we will get a UUID in the response. This time, this is the ID of the `TransferProcess` (
process id) created on the consumer
side, because like the contract negotiation, the data transfer is handled in a state machine and
performed asynchronously.

Sample output:

```json
 {
  "createdAt": 1674078357807,
  "id": "591bb609-1edb-4a6b-babe-50f1eca3e1e9"
}
```

### 10. Check the transfer status

Due to the nature of the transfer, it will be very fast and most likely already done by the time you
read the UUID.

```bash
curl http://localhost:19193/api/v1/data/transferprocess/<transfer process id>
```

You will probably get a response like the following:

> ```json

Reviewer: this response is an error, probably not something we will expect at this point

[
  {
    "message": "Object of type TransferProcess with ID=517c8e3c-de78-4b4b-a6c9-734a12672ab0 was not found",
    "type": "ObjectNotFound",
    "path": null,
    "invalidValue": null
  }
]
```

> ### 11. See the data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 11. Pull the data
```

  "properties": {
    "cid": "1:1e47895f-9025-49e1-971d-eb865c38d540"
  }
}
```

Once this json is read, use a tool like postman or curl to execute the following query, to read the
data

```bash
curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:29291/public/' \
--header 'Authorization: <auth code>'

> ```

Reviewer: Let the user know that the data they are seeing is the same that was defined in the asset
